---
layout: docs-content
title: Bitlend | Docs - Tokenomics
permalink: /
docs_version: v1

## Element ID: In-page Heading
sidebar_nav_data:
  intro-to-bttc: Intro to BTTC
  intro-to-bitlend: Intro to Bitlend
---

<div class="new-docs-banner">
  <div class="center">
    <span class="message">Bitlend is now live, you're currently viewing Bitlend documentation.</span>
    <a href="/">
      <span class="button">Bitlend Documentation</span>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

## Intro to BTTC

BitTorrent Chain (BTTC) is the world’s first heterogeneous cross-chain interoperability protocol on TRON. It utilizes Proof of Stake technology and side-chains to solve blockchain’s trilemma: scalability, speed, and security.

BitTorrent Chain is interoperable with other mainstream blockchains such as Tron, Ethereum, and Binance Chain. Its underlying protocol has an average block time of 2 to 3 seconds, greatly speeding up transactions. Fees on BTTC average less than $.01, making it one of the most affordable platforms for developers and users alike.

BitTorrent is also the world’s largest peer to peer network. Originally founded in 2004, BitTorrent was founded as a file sharing service. The platform has amassed over 100 million active users, been installed on over 1 billion devices, and is used in 138 countries worldwide.

## Intro to Bitlend

Lending and borrowing platforms are an important part of DeFi. Through supply, demand, and tokenized incentives, crypto lending platforms set the market rate for on-chain passive income. These protocols are often composable, allowing other platforms to build on top of and use their infrastructure to create new products.

BitLend is a permissionless, transparent, and non-custodial lending platform native to BitTorrent Chain. A fork of Compound Finance v2, it will be the first lending and borrowing protocol to launch on BTTC - paving the way for fast and scalable DeFi in the BTTC ecosystem. BitLend’s entire codebase is comprised of Solidity, and will utilize Band price oracles in lieu of Chainlink. More information on Band Protocol can be found here.
