---
layout: docs-content
title: Bitlend | Docs - bTokens
permalink: /btokens/
docs_version: v1
sidebar_nav_data:
  how-btokens-earn-interest: How bTokens Earn Interest
  example-walkthrough: Example Walkthrough
  viewing-your-btokens: Viewing Your bTokens
  can-i-transfer-btokens?: Can I Transfer bTokens?
---

# bToken

Assets supported by BitLend are incorporated using a bToken contract. When a user supplies assets to the protocol, they mint bTokens, which are representative of the assets they have supplied. bTokens may be held to earn interest, or used as collateral for borrowing.

There are currently two types of bTokens: BBrc20 and BBtt. Though both types expose the EIP-20 interface, BBrc20 wraps an underlying BRC-20 asset, while BBtt simply wraps Ether itself. As such, the core functions which involve transferring an asset into the protocol have slightly different interfaces depending on the type, each of which is shown below.

## How bTokens Earn Interest

Each bToken market has an independent APR, determined by borrowing demand for a particular asset. Accrued interest is distributed through the price-appreciation of held bTokens. Over time, the underlying value behind each bToken increases, and may be redeemed. Thus, while the amount of bTokens held in a wallet remains constant, the underlying value increases.

## Example Walkthrough

Say a user deposits 1000 USDD to BitLend when the exchange rate is .02. That user would receive 50,000 bUSDD (1000 / .02).

After several months, the user decides it is time to withdraw their USDD from the protocol. At that time, the exchange rate is .02158.

The user’s 50000 bUSDD is now equal to 1079 USDD (50000 \* .02158).

The user has the option to redeem all 50000 bUSDD to withdraw all 1079 USDD, or they could remove any portion they choose.

## Viewing Your bTokens

bToken contracts are visible on bttcscan.com. Users are able to view them in a list of tokens associated with their address.

## Can I Transfer bTokens?

bTokens are transferable, but users should do so with caution. bTokens are your receipt for supplied assets. If they are transferred, the rights to those supplied assets are also transferred. If you sent a bToken to your friend, your balance will decline and your friend’s balance will increase.

If a bToken has been used as collateral within BitLend, an attempt to transfer will result in a failed transaction. This is required to maintain adequate liquidity levels within the protocol.

1. [bToken Functions](/btokens/functions/)
2. [Protocol Math](/btokens/protocol-math/)
{: .mega-ordered-list }